We previously developed a co-immobilization assay (Co-II assay) for quantitative measuring of the protein-protein interactions on the plasma membrane (PM) of living cells [ref]. A “bait” EGFR is immobilized explicitly on a cell membrane using its specific antibody coated on a glass surface. Then its binding partner, the “prey”, will be co-immobilized together with the bait EGFR when the interaction occurs. This interaction of “prey – bait” is visualized on a TIRF microscopy utilizing organic dyes, which enables the acquisition of a sufficient number of trajectories of each “prey – bait” molecule in a single cell using a single-particle tracking assay. The co-immobilizing events that were counted at the single-molecule level will provide a direct indicator of their interaction strength.
Using this Co-II concept, we expand this method to lipid Co-II for measuring the lipid-protein interactions on the PM of living cells (Extended Data Figs 1). Fluorophore labeled “prey” lipid will be embedded on the PM of a living transiently transfected “bait” EGFR cells. Then the “prey” lipid will be co-immobilized with the “bait” EGFR under the treatment of an anti-“bait” EGFR specific antibody coated on a glass surface if the interaction occurs. Thus, the lipid Co-II assay is an ideal solution for measuring the interaction between lipid and protein in the PM of a living cell.
Here, we employ BODIPY–labeled cholesterol to visualize the dynamics of individual cholesterol molecules on the plasma membrane of live cells. The BODIPY-cholesterol has been previously reported to exhibit similar physiological behaviors to native cholesterol in various applications [ref]. However, the effect of BODIPY-cholesterol-related on EGFR function has not been investigated. To examine whether BODIPY-Chol functions as native cholesterol on EGFR, we performed a cholesterol add-back experiment. We depleted native cholesterol using MβCD and then added cholesterol or BODIPY-cholesterol loaded on MβCD. We found that BODIPY-cholesterol addback also suppressed ligand-independent activation of EGFR as native cholesterol did (Extended Data Figs 2).
Next, we tracked single-molecule BODIPY-cholesterol on the plasma membrane of a live COS7 cell using TIRF microscopy with the localization precision of xxx nm for 10 ms exposure time (Supplementary Movie 1). Using this imaging condition, we could track BODIPY-cholesterol for an average of 50 frames. The diffusion of BODIPY-cholesterol in the intact PM of the COS7 cell is x.x ± x.xx µm2/s which is consistent with previous reports [ref].
We applied lipid Co-II to investigate the interaction between BODIPY-cholesterol and SNAP-EGFR on PM of live cells (Fig. 1a and d). SNAP-EGFR is transiently expressed on the BODIPY-cholesterol embedded COS7 cells. SNAP-EGFR is specifically immobilized using an anti-SNAP antibody conjugated with the coated secondary antibody on a glass surface. Then BODIPY-cholesterol is co-immobilized with the SNAP-EGFR if the interaction occurs. We performed two-color single particle tracking for BG-CF660R labeled SNAP-EGFR and BODIPY-cholesterol before and after anti-SNAP antibody treatment (Fig. 1b and e). BODIPY-cholesterol immobile fraction showed negligible change after antibody treatment in the inactive form of EGFR. However, 6.4 ± 1.7% of the BODIPY-cholesterol fraction is co-immobilized with the active form of EGFR under the treatment of EGF ligand (Fig. 1c and f). This result is unexpected since cholesterol in the lipid raft is shown to inhibit EGFR activation in the inactive state [ref]. 
Under the stimulation of EGF, cholesterol interacts with EGFR active dimer. Here, we confirmed the stoichiometry of immobilized active EGFR dimer by the analysis of single-molecule photobleaching steps (Extended Data Figs 3a). To acquire the intensity profile of single-molecule EGFR, the density of EGFR molecules must be reduced without losing the stoichiometry information. Using the desthiobiotin system for Co-II, desthiobiotin labeled secondary antibody is conjugated to the neutravidin-coated glass surface. Upon the treatment with the anti-SNAP first antibody, SNAP-EGFR could be reversibly immobilized to the desthiobiotin labeled secondary antibody. We reduce the SNAP-EGFR density to the single-molecule level by displacing the desthiobiotin system with excess biotin until the individual SNAP-EGFR were spatially resolved. Without EGF treatment, 21.45 ± 2.19% of SNAP-EGFR immobilized spots showed 2-step photobleaching while 72.47 ± 3.47% of the SNAP-EGFR population exhibited 1-step photobleaching indicating the anti-SNAP antibody mostly immobilized inactive form of SNAP-EGFR (Extended Data Figs 3b). Upon the treatment of EGF, the population of EGFR immobilized spots showed a 2-step photobleaching intensity profile significantly increase to 45.94 ± 3.04% (2.14-folded increase) while the 1-step photobleaching population of EGFR immobilized spots decrease to 44.23 ± 4.74% (Extended Data Figs 3c). 
Since the stoichiometry results showed a significant level of both EGFR monomer fraction and dimer fraction in the active state, we wonder which EGFR fraction is important for the interaction with cholesterol. To enrich a dimeric EGFR fraction, we adopted a chemically inducible dimerization system utilizing an FKBP12 domain that forms a strong homodimer mediated by AP20187 ligand (refs). We conjugated the FKBP12 domain to SNAP-EGFR at its C-terminus with a flexible linker to minimize the adverse effect generated by the protein tag (Extended Data Figs 4a). Here we transiently transfect FKBP12 tagged EGFR to Cos7 cells and treated the transfected cells with the AP20187 before performing the Co-II experiment. In the inactive state of EGFR, BODIPY-cholesterol co-immobile fraction revealed no sustainable change with both FKBP-EGFR monomer and homodimer fraction (Extended Data Figs 4b). However, 5.11 ± 1.22% of the BODIPY-cholesterol fraction is co-immobilized with the active EGFR homodimer under the treatment of AP20187. This result confirms the interaction between cholesterol and EGFR active dimer. Furthermore, even though there is a significant amount of EGFR inactive dimer in the stoichiometry data, but we could not detect any BODIPY-cholesterol co-immobilized fraction with the EGFR homodimer in the inactive state with the treatment of AP20187.
EGFR extends its extracellular domain upon the binding of EGF [ref]. Since BODIPY-cholesterol only showed a significant co-immobilized fraction with EGFR dimer in the active state. We check whether extended EGFR configuration is important for the interaction with cholesterol. We confirm the importance of the EGFR extended form for the cholesterol interaction using an EGFR del-tethered mutant (Extended Data Figs 6a). Del-tethered mutation comprises a deletion mutation (V575 to W584) and 2-point mutations (D653A, H566A) on the domain IV of EGFR which induced a constitutively extended form of EGFR extracellular domain [ref]. We transiently expressed SNAP-EGFR del-tethered mutant on Cos7 cells. Under the treatment of anti-SNAP antibody, 5.8 ± 1.4% fraction of BODIPY-cholesterol is co-immobilized with SNAP-EGFR del-tethered mutant (Extended Data Figs 6b). We further utilized ErbB2 (Extended Data Figs 6a), a member of the ErbBs family [ref]. ErbB2 exists in an extended conformation of extracellular domain (ECD) [ref]. After transiently expressing SNAP-ErbB2 on Cos7 cells, we detected a 4.7 ± 0.8% co-immobilized fraction of BODIPY-cholesterol with SNAP-ErB2 upon the treatment with the anti-SNAP antibody (Extended Data Figs 6b). These results confirm on the important role of EGFR active conformation for the interaction with BODIPY-cholesterol.
These data indicate that an active EGFR dimer but not an inactive monomer interacts with cholesterol in the plasma membrane. Unexpectedly, this observation was opposite to the lipid raft model where inactive EGFR resides in a cholesterol-rich lipid raft and translocates out of the lipid raft upon activation by EGF [ref]. Thus, we wondered whether the EGFR and cholesterol interaction we observed is related to the lipid raft. Previously, methyl β cyclodextrin (MβCD) has been utilized to disrupt the lipid raft preferentially [ref]. In the presence of MβCD, we measured EGFR and cholesterol interaction using Co-II. We found no significant changes in their interactions (Fig. 2a), suggesting that non-lipid-raft cholesterol is involved in this interaction. Recently, it was reported that PTCH1B affects the inner leaflet cholesterol level of the PM [ref] besides its tumor suppressors function [ref]. PTCH1b can also control the BODIPY-cholesterol efflux [ref]. By transiently co-transfect PTCH1b-BFP and SNAP-EGFR in Cos7 cells, we found BODIPY-cholesterol no longer interacts with active EGFR upon the overexpression of PTCH1b (Fig. 2a). ABCA1 is a well-known cholesterol and phospholipid transporter across cell membranes [ref]. Overexpression of ABCA1 significantly decreases the cholesterol in the inner leaflet of PM [ref] and the regulation of BODIPY-cholesterol efflux by ABCA1 transporter was extensively characterized [ref]. Thus, we performed ABCA1-BFP and SNAP-EGFR co-transfection in Cos7 cells and we found no significant change in BODIPY-cholesterol co-immobilized fraction with active SNAP-EGFR (Fig. 2a).
We further examine the function of PTCH1b and ABCA1 on the regulation of EGFR autophosphorylation. We transiently expressed PTCH1b or ABCA1 on Cos7 cells and check for the endogenous EGFR Y1068 autophosphorylation levels with or without ligand. We found the overexpression of PTCH1b or ABCA1 significantly diminished the EGFR autophosphorylation with EGF treatment (Fig. 2c and d), which is opposite to the previously known ligand-independent activation of EGFR by the disruption of lipid raft upon MβCD treatment (Fig. 2b). Here we found that PTCH1b and ABCA1 are the regulators of EGFR activation through the control of the non-lipid-raft cholesterol in the inner leaflet of PM. 
We further analyze the effect of PTCH1b on EGFR dimerization. EGFR active dimers were detected by cross-linking assay with or without PTCH1b overexpression [ref]. Transiently transfected PTCH1b Cos7 cells or vehicle transfected Cos7 cells are incubated with EGF and bis[sulfosuccinimidyl] suberate (BS3) cross-linker before lysed with lysis buffer. Cell lysate is analyzed using Blue-Native Polyacrylamide Gel-Electrophoresis (BN-PAGE) [ref] for EGFR active dimer population. We detected negligible change in the EGFR active dimer population upon PTCH1b overexpression indicating PTCH1b might not regulate EGFR active dimer quantity but EGFR active dimer stability (Fig. 2e).
We check the EGFR active dimer stability by measuring the EGFR dimer lifetime with the Co-II assay (Fig. 2f). Upon antibody treatment, the active prey EGFR trajectory showed a mobile and immobile pattern with the immobilized active bait EGFR (Fig. 2g). The immobile state is where the dimerization occurs between two monomeric EGFR molecules. By quantifying the total duration of the immobile state from each EGFR long trajectory, we could calculate and relatively compare the average dimer lifetime of EGFR with or without PTCH1b overexpression. Here we transiently co-expressed SNAP-EGFR, GFP-EGFR, and PTCH1b-BFP on Cos7 cells and labeled SNAP-EGFR with BG-CF660R. Upon anti-GFP antibody treatment, we perform single-particle tracking using the CF660R signal and measure the dimer lifetime between SNAP-EGFR and GFP-EGFR. Upon the EGF treatment, the average dimer lifetime of between SNAP-EGFR and GFP-EGFR is significantly increased from 0.87 ± 0.14s to 1.45 ± 0.13s (Fig. 2h). Under the PTCH1b overexpression condition, the average dimer lifetime of between SNAP-EGFR and GFP-EGFR is significantly lower (1.01 ±0.08s) indicating PTCH1b regulates EGFR dimer stability through non-lipid-raft cholesterol in the inner leaflet of PM. 
In order to examine the molecular function of inner-leaflet cholesterol, we have performed molecular dynamics simulations of monomeric and dimeric transmembrane domain (TMD) of EGFR embedded in a cholesterol-containing lipid bilayer. Transient interactions of cholesterol molecule were observed in distinct regions, two of them being important for receptor dimerization in dormant and active states. NMR experiments monitoring the interaction sites of spin-labeled cholesterol with EGFR TMD solubilized in lipid bicelles corroborate the MD simulations. Notably, analysis of cholesterol occupancy in the sites supported by the results of mutagenesis of cholesterol-recognizing residues revealed that a cholesterol molecule can be specifically absorbed and locked inside the inner-leaflet cavity (a pocket) formed between TMD helices switched to N-terminal dimerization mode upon EGFR activation. As evidenced by MD, such cholesterol capture in the pocket results in stabilization of active configuration of TMD dimer and large spacing between the C-termini of the EGFR TMD helices, which are needed to allow the antiparallel association of cytoplasmic juxtamembrane JM-A helices in a fashion permitting proper kinase activation in response of ligand binding. Thus, the MD simulation has explained how inner-leaflet cholesterol can stabilize the active conformation of EGFR dimer. 
Notably, analysis of cholesterol occupancy in the sites supported by mutagenesis of cholesterol-recognizing residues revealed that a cholesterol molecule can be specifically absorbed and locked inside the inner-leaflet cavity (a pocket) formed between TMD helices switched to N-terminal dimerization mode upon EGFR activation. As evidenced by MD, such cholesterol capture in the pocket results in stabilization of active configuration of TMD dimer and a large spacing (~25-30 Å) between the C-termini of the EGFR TMD helices, which are needed to allow the antiparallel association of the cytoplasmic juxtamembrane JM-A helices in a fashion permitting proper kinase activation in response to ligand binding. Based on the MD we can conclude that the inner-leaflet cholesterol being embedded into the interfacial pocket within the EGFR TMD dimer serves as a tightening wedge that allosterically supports the receptor in the dimeric conformation suitable for its activation. Thus, computer modeling explained how inner-leaflet cholesterol can stabilize the active conformation of EGFR dimer. 
From the MD simulation, we found two expected residues (G641, R645) which might be responsible for the interaction between inner-leaflet cholesterol and EGFR TMD. The first residue is G641 which might interact with the hydrophobic body of the inner-leaflet cholesterol, and the second residue is R645 which might interact with the hydrophilic head of the inner-leaflet cholesterol. Hence, we perform EGFR TMD mutagenesis to identify the inner-leaflet cholesterol binding motif (Extended Data Figs 8). Each EGFR TMD mutant is transiently expressed in EGFR knockout COS7 cells to avoid the heterodimer between the mutant EGFR and endogenous wildtype EGFR (Extended Data Figs 7). We transfected each SNAP-EGFR TMD mutant to EGFR knockout COS7 cells. Transfected cells are fixed and permeabilized before staining with anti-tyrosine 1068 phosphorylation residue of EGFR (Y1068). Stained cells are further labeled with anti-Rabbit IgG Alexa Fluor 568 and BG-CF660R for fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) two-color analysis. Here we utilized FACS to quantitatively compare the EGF induced EGFR phosphorylation level of each SNAP-EGFR TMD mutant with wildtype EGFR since EGFR phosphorylation depended on the transfected EGFR expression. FACS results showed mutations near EGFR TMD N-terminal (T624-L638), have a negligible effect on the EGFR phosphorylation (Extended Data Figs 9). However, point mutation of residues nearby G641 (I640A/G641I/L642A), exerts a significant inhibition effect on the EGF induce EGFR phosphorylation (Extended Data Figs 9) similar to PTCH1b or ABCA1 knockdown result (Fig. 2c and d) while R645I shown no sustainable change to the EGFR phosphorylation. We also confirmed the inhibition effect of EGFR TMD mutant I640E on the ligand-induced EGFR phosphorylation as reported previously (ref). These data indicated these hydrophobic residues (I640-L642) in the EGFR C-terminal TMD might be responsible for the interaction with the hydrophobic body of inner leaflet cholesterol.
Using the EGFR TMD mutants (I640E/ I640A/G641I/L642A/F643A/R645I), we check whether the EGFR TMD C-terminal mutation could affect the interaction between EGFR and inner leaflet cholesterol using Co-II (Fig. 3). We transiently transfect EGFR mutants on EGFR knock out COS7 cells and check for cholesterol co-immobilized fraction with the EGFR mutant upon antibody treatment. Consistently, EGFR TMD mutants I640A/G641I/L642A significantly inhibit the interaction between inner-leaflet cholesterol and EGFR upon the stimulation of EGF (Fig. 3). Furthermore, EGFR TMD mutation on I640 to glutamic acid instead of alanine also exhibits a similar inhibition effect on EGFR-cholesterol interaction indicating the mutation on I640/G641/L642 inhibits the EGF induced EGFR phosphorylation through the interaction with cholesterol. The previous study showed the EGFR TMD point mutation V627E is known to induce the EGFR N-terminal TMD active dimer while G625I blocks the EGFR N-terminal TMD active dimer. As a result, V627E also induce the interaction between inner leaflet cholesterol and N-terminal TMD active dimer of EGFR. Overall, these results show the direct interaction between inner leaflet cholesterol with EGFR N-terminal TMD dimer and inner-leaflet cholesterol is a primary factor in stabilizing the EGFR active N-terminal TMD dimer conformation.
Upon the interaction with EGF, active EGFR directly bind to the inner leaflet cholesterol through the I640-L642 residues located in the pocket of the EGFR C-terminal dimer. The interaction between inner leaflet cholesterol and EGFR lock and stabilizes the active EGFR N-terminal TMD dimer which stabilizes the active TMD dimer conformation of EGFR and allows the approaching of the EGFR TKD for further autophosphorylation and downstream signaling (Fig. 4). In this model, ligand act as a key to the inhibitory mechanism of EGFR while inner leaflet cholesterol facilitates the activation of EGFR. 
